Welcome to my github repository, I am Anomitra Mukhopadhyay, I am an Indian student who has pursued a Master's degree in Robotics from Cranfield University, United Kingdom, which is one of the top recognised universities across the globe. I have also pursued a Bachelor of Technology degree in Mechatronics Engineering from SRM Institute of Science and Technology, India, which is one of the top recognised universities in India. 

I am enthusiastic about the development of robotic technology in current times with particular focus on industrial robots, which became the reason behind my pursuing a Bachelor’s degree in Mechatronics Engineering and a Master's degree in Robotics. I have obtained practical experience in robotic, electronic systems, simulations and CAD software and potentially carried out research projects in the field of industrial robots. I am a effective communicator with professional efficiency in English. I am Competent in robotics and carrying forward the work and research of potentially developing robots. My Proven strengths include strong work ethic, problem-solving skills and the ability to deliver results on time.

I have never been employed before, that’s the reason behind me not having any work experience, yet I have extensive hands-on industrial technical knowledge and experience that I have gained through different projects in the field of Robotics and Mechatronics both in terms of software and hardware during my 5 years of academic tenure. This repositiory contains my proven technical ability in the field of robotics with the help of these three important academic projects, apart from other small projects that I have done in my 5 years of academic tenure (bachelors and masters degree).

**Project Description:** 

The project that was undertaken by me during my Bachelor's degree was: 'Design and Development of Mobile Manipulator for Warehouse Application’. The project focuses on developing an autonomous mobile robot with a manipulator performing pick and place operations in warehouses or sorting centres. With my expertise in SOLIDWORKS during the final year of my undergraduate studies, I with a team of three capable mechatronics engineers carried out this research project based on mobile robots and robot manipulators. Keeping in mind the aim of reducing production loss, due to different factors like time, manual mistakes and much more. In addition to the design, I have also taken sole responsibility in the Embedded Electronics (Hardware) section. My experience in electronics has helped me select all the electronic components for the mobile robot including brainstorming different motors and sensors based on calculations of torque, force and much more. On the software side of this project, using different plugins, libraries, and a bit of C++ programming I have also worked on robot path planning and obstacle avoidance in Unity 3D installed in a 64 bit Windows 10 operating system, considering the different factors like wheel friction, slippage, and reaction force.

*You can view the project's presentation video in "B.tech Mechatronics- Major Project" .zip folder*.

The group project that was undertaken by me during my Master's degree was: ‘Robot Room Service’. The project aims to develop a reliable method for service robots to perform room service jobs in a hotel environment. During the MSc group project I have worked on robot obstacle avoidance, detection, and path planning. For robot obstacle avoidance, detection, and path planning, the local and the global path planning systems are important to consider. I have worked with a couple of different local and global path planning systems like A* Algorithm, TEB local planner, and DWA local planner. The project was simulated on Robot Operating System (ROS) Melodic, installed in a 64 bit Ubuntu 18.04 operating system. My work on this project has helped me to brush up on my ROS knowledge and sharpen my skills in ROS.

*You can view the project's presentation video and supporting files in "MSc Robotics- Group Project" .zip folder*.

The Individual project that was undertaken by me during my Master's degree was: Hybrid-Framework for Multi-Robot Collision Avoidance’. The thesis aims to identify how robot path planning and obstacle avoidance in a dynamic environment could be made much more optimised and promising using the combination of Machine Learning with already available traditional approaches. The project was about how robot path planning and obstacle avoidance in a dynamic environment could be made much more optimised and promising using the combination of Machine Learning with already available traditional approaches. A traditional approach like the A* algorithm was used for path planning and for obstacle avoidance, due to dynamic environmental complexities, machine learning was used. When compared to traditional approaches being used for obstacle avoidance, it was seen that due to the learning-based approach of the robot, the robot performed better with the machine learning approach. The project was simulated on Robot Operating System (ROS) Melodic, installed in a 64 bit Ubuntu 18.04 operating system. This project has helped me dig deep and understand the concepts of ROS and Machine Learning.

*You can view the project's presentation video and supporting files in "MSc Robotics- Individual Thesis" .zip folder*.

Once you have opened this page through the link provided, and then when you open each folder of my repository, the files inside the folder **might or might not** be visible due to size issue, if it's **not** visible, you need to click on the download button to download the folder and view the contents. Sorry for this inconvenience caused.

I wish to learn and develop my technical knowledge and also gain work experience by working on different client based projects. I am confident about my work, I am a person who believes in hard work, smart work, patience and perseverance. You are more than welcome to take your time looking at these projects and analysing my practical efficiency. I will more than happy to provide furthur in depth details of the projects in the future.

Thank You.
